TITLE: REPORT OF THE BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE
PAGES: 183 - 186

--- Page 183 ---
183
Integrated Annual Report 2025 | SANASA Development Bank PLC 
REPORT OF THE BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE
COMPOSITION OF THE 
BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE 
(BAC)
The Board Audit Committee appointed by 
and responsible to the Board of Directors 
(“the Board”) comprises three (03) 
Independent, Non-Executive Directors.
The following Directors serve in the Board 
Audit Committee (BAC):
	
Ð Mr. Chaaminda Kumarasiri - Chairman 
(BAC), Independent, Non-Executive 
Director
	
Ð Mr. Prasanna Premaratna - 
Independent, Non- Executive Director
	
Ð Mr. Thusantha Wijemanna - 
Independent, Non-Executive 
Director (Appointed to the BAC w.e.f 
26.03.2026)
Mr. B.R.A. Bandara, Non- Independent, 
Non- Executive Director, served as a 
member of the BAC until 26.03.2026. We 
take this opportunity to place on record 
the Committee’s appreciation for the 
valuable service rendered by Mr. B.R.A. 
Bandara as a member of the Committee.
The Chairman of the BAC, Mr. 
Chaaminda Kumarasiri is an Independent 
Non- Executive Director. Brief profile of 
Mr. Chaaminda Kumarasiri and other 
members of the BAC are given on pages 
50 to 56 in the Annual Report.
The Chief Internal Auditor functions as 
the Secretary to the BAC.
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The BAC was functioned as per the 
Terms of Reference approved by the 
Board of Directors. The Board reviews 
the Terms of Reference once a year and/
or when necessary and it ensures that 
new developments as per regulations are 
adequately addressed. The Committee 
is responsible to the Board of Directors 
and reports on its activities regularly. The 
BAC also assists the Board in its general 
oversight of financial reporting, internal 
controls and functions relating to internal 
and external audits.
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE
The roles and functions of the BAC are 
regulated by the Banking Act Direction 
No 05 of 2024 on corporate governance 
for licensed Banks issued by the 
Central Bank of Sri Lanka, the Rules on 
Corporate Governance as per the Section 
9 of listing rules issued by the Colombo 
Stock Exchange and the Code of Best 
Practice on Corporate Governance 2023 
issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka).
The Committee monitored the 
progress on implementation of the 
recommendations made in the Statutory 
Examination Reports of the Central Bank 
of Sri Lanka (CBSL) through follow-up 
reports tabled during the year 2025.
DUTIES AND ROLE OF THE 
BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE
The BAC is responsible for:
	
Ð Reviewing financial information of the 
Bank in order to monitor the integrity 
of the Financial Statements, its Annual 
Report, accounts and quarterly 
reports prepared for disclosure.
	
Ð Reporting to the Board on the quality 
and acceptability of the Bank’s 
accounting policies and practices.
	
Ð Assessing the reasonableness of the 
underlying assumptions for estimates 
and judgements made in preparing 
the Financial Statements.
	
Ð Reviewing of the accounting and 
financial reporting, risk management 
processes and regulatory 
compliance.
	
Ð Reviewing of the Financial Statements 
(including interim financial 
statements) prior to publication to 
ensure compliance with statutory 
provisions, accounting standards and 
accounting policies.
	
Ð Reviewing of the internal audit 
reports and liaising with Corporate 
Management in taking precautionary 
measures to minimise control 
weaknesses, procedure violations 
and frauds.
	
Ð Assessing the independence and 
reviewing the adequacy of the scope, 
functions and resources of the 
Internal Audit Department, including 
the appointment of the Chief Internal 
Auditor (CIA) and the performance of 
the CIA and senior staff members of 
the Internal Audit Department.
	
Ð Overseeing the appointment, 
re-appointment, compensation, 
resignation, dismissal of the External 
Auditor, including review of the 
external audit, its scope, cost and 
effectiveness and monitoring of the 
External Auditor’s independence.
	
Ð Reviewing the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Bank’s systems 
of internal control over financial 
reporting to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability 
of Financial reporting and the 
preparation of Financial Statements 
for external purposes has been done 
in accordance with the applicable 
accounting standards and the 
regulatory requirements.
	
Ð Reviewing the Terms of Reference 
(ToR) of the Board Audit Committee 
periodically and ensuring that it 
reflects the best practices of the 
industry at all times.
	
Ð Ensure that the Bank adopts and 
adheres to high standards of 
Corporate Governance Practices.
	
Ð Engaging independent advisors 
on specialised functions where it is 
deemed necessary.
MEETINGS
For the purpose of discharging its 
duties, the BAC met thirteen (13) times 
during the year. The attendance of the 
Committee members of each of these 
meetings is given in the table in page 
206 of the Annual Report. The minutes 
of the meetings have been regularly 
reported to the Board of Directors. Chief 
Internal Auditor and Chief Financial 
Officer have normally attended meetings 
on invitation and Executive Director / 
Chief Executive Officer and the relevant 
Corporate Management/ Officers in other 
grades also participated in the meetings 
on invitation. On the invitation of the 


--- Page 184 ---
184
SANASA Development Bank PLC | Integrated Annual Report 2025
REPORT OF THE BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE
Committee, the Engagement Partner 
and the Senior Officers of the Bank’s 
External Auditors, Messrs. Ernst & Young 
attended four (04) Committee meetings 
during the year. In four (04) out of thirteen 
(13) meetings, it has been discussed 
and recommended the Quarterly and 
Annual Financial Statements for the Board 
approval.
The Committee met Chief Internal Auditor 
without the presence of Management in 
an occasion to assess the independence 
and other confidential matters. The BAC 
met the External Auditors in four (04) 
occasions during the year and in which 
two (02) occasions were without the 
presence of the Executive Director / Chief 
Executive Officer and the Management 
to ensure that there were no limitations of 
scope in relation to the external audit and 
to allow for full disclosure of any incident 
which could have had a negative impact 
on the effectiveness on the external audit.
FINANCIAL REPORTING
The Committee, as part of its 
responsibility to oversee the Bank’s 
financial reporting process on behalf 
of the Board of Directors, has reviewed 
and discussed with the Management 
and the External Auditors with regard 
to the interim and the Annual Financial 
Statements prior to their release for 
publication. The review included the 
quality and acceptability of accounting 
policies and practices, the clarity of the 
disclosures and the extent of compliance 
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards 
(SLFRS and LKAS), the Companies Act 
No. 07 of 2007, the Banking Act No. 30 
of 1988 and amendments thereto and 
other relevant financial and governance 
reporting requirements. The Committee 
continuously reviewed the extent to 
which the Bank complies with the CBSL 
Directives No. 13 of 2021 and No. 14 
of 2021 on Classification, Recognition 
and Measurement of Credit Facilities 
& Other Financial Assets in Licensed 
Banks and the implementation of Sri 
Lanka Accounting Standards – SLFRS 
9 “Financial Instruments” issued by The 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
Sri Lanka. To facilitate their review, the 
BAC considered reports from the Chief 
Financial Officer/Head of Finance and 
also reports from the External Auditors on 
the outcome of their review of the annual 
audit.
The Committee also assessed the 
prevailing macro-economic challenges 
and their collective impact on SDB 
bank’s financial reporting process. 
Accordingly, the Committee reviewed the 
key assumptions used for the ‘expected 
credit loss’ impairment computations as 
at the end of each quarter, prior to the 
publication of the Quarterly Financial 
Statements. Further the Committee 
considered the management overlay 
against the Bank’s lending portfolio and 
the adequacy of disclosures made by the 
management.
As part of the BAC’s responsibilities, 
notably its review of financial results, 
reports from Internal and External audits, 
the Bank’s Accounting Policies, as well as 
the Annual Financial Statements; the BAC 
took cognisance of the Key Audit Matters 
as reported in the Independent Auditors’ 
Report.
In addition, the Committee reviewed 
Management’s judgements on significant 
accounting and external reporting 
requirements and obtained external 
auditor’s agreement with the treatment 
thereof.
INTERNAL CONTROL OVER 
FINANCIAL REPORTING 
(ICOFR)
The Bank is required to comply with 
Section 9.2 (b) of the Banking Act 
Direction No 05 of 2024 on corporate 
governance for licensed Banks issued 
by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka 
and assessed the adequacy and 
effectiveness of internal control over 
financial reporting as of 31st December 
2025.
The above was conducted based on 
the criteria set out in the Guidance for 
Directors of Banks on “The Directors’ 
Statement of Internal Control”, issued by 
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) in 2010.
The Bank’s assessment was 
concentrated on processes documented 
by the respective process owners with 
the guidance of the Bank’s Internal 
Audit and External Auditors. Based on 
Internal Auditors’ and External Auditors’ 
assessments, the Board has concluded 
that, as of 31st December 2025, the 
Bank’s internal control over financial 
reporting is effective. Directors’ Report 
on the Bank’s Internal Control over 
Financial Reporting is provided on pages 
211 to 212 in the Annual Report. The 
Bank’s External Auditors have reviewed 
the effectiveness of the Bank’s internal 
control over financial reporting and 
have reported to the Board that nothing 
has come to their attention that causes 
them to believe that the statement is 
inconsistent with their understanding of 
the process adopted by the Board in the 
review of the design and effectiveness 
of the internal control over financial 
reporting of the Bank. External Auditor’s 
Report on the Bank’s Internal Control over 
Financial Reporting is provided on page 
213 of the Annual Report.
ANNUAL CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE REPORT
As required by Section 9.2 (b) of the 
Banking Act Direction No 05 of 2024 
on corporate governance for licensed 
Banks issued by the Central Bank 
of Sri Lanka, the Annual Corporate 
Governance Report for 2025 and 
the compliance with Colombo stock 
Exchange (CSE) listing rules – Section 
09 on Corporate Governance for 2025 
are provided on pages 124 to 160 and 
174 to 180 respectively in the Annual 
Report. The External Auditors of the 
Bank have performed procedures 
set-out in Sri Lanka Related Services 
Practice Statement (SLRSPS) 4750 
issued by The Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka, to meet the 
compliance requirement of the Corporate 
Governance directive. The findings 
presented in their report addressed to 
the Board are consistent with the matters 
disclosed above and did not identify any 
inconsistencies to those reported by the 
Board on pages 161 to 173.


--- Page 185 ---
185
Integrated Annual Report 2025 | SANASA Development Bank PLC 
EXTERNAL AUDIT
With regard to the external audit function 
of the Bank, the role played by the BAC 
was as follows:
	
Ð Conducting the annual evaluation 
of the independence and objectivity 
of the External Auditor and the 
effectiveness of the audit process. 
To ensure that the Auditors had 
the independence to discuss and 
express their opinions on any 
matter, they were granted a further 
opportunity to meet the Board Audit 
Committee separately, without the 
presence of Management.
	
Ð Further BAC reviewed the 
Independent Confirmation issued by 
the External Auditor as required by 
the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, 
confirming that they do not have 
any relationship or interest in the 
Company, which may have a bearing 
on their independence within the 
meaning of the Code of Conduct and 
Ethics of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka.
	
Ð The Committee discussed with the 
External Auditors on their audit plan, 
scope and the methodology they 
propose to adopt in conducting the 
annual audit, prior to commencement 
of the audit for financial year 2025. 
There was no limitation of scope, and 
the Management has fully provided 
all information and explanations 
requested by the Auditors.
	
Ð As per the Banking Act Direction No. 
12 of 2007, the mandatory Code of 
Corporate Governance for Licensed 
Specialised Banks in Sri Lanka, 
issued by the Central Bank of Sri 
Lanka, the Board Audit Committee 
ensured for the Financial Year 
ended 31st December 2025, that 
the engagement of the Audit Partner 
did not exceed five years and that 
the particular Audit Partner was not 
re-engaged for the audit before the 
expiry of three years from the date of 
the completion of the previous term. 
However, requirements as per the 
Banking Act Direction No 05 of 2024 
on corporate governance for licensed 
banks issued by the Central Bank of 
Sri Lanka with effect from 1st January 
2025, Board Audit Committee shall 
take necessary steps to ensure that 
the engagement of the external 
auditor does not exceed six years 
and change the engagement partner 
once in every three years.
	
Ð Reviewed the Audited Financial 
Statements with the External Auditor 
who is responsible for expressing an 
opinion on its conformity with the Sri 
Lanka Accounting Standards.
	
Ð Reviewed the Key Audit Matters 
(KAM) Report and Management 
Letters issued by the External Auditor 
together with Management responses 
thereto.
	
Ð Reviewed the non-audit services 
provided by the External Auditor and 
was of the view that such services 
were not within the category of 
services identified as prohibited 
under;
(a)	 The guidelines issued by the Central 
Bank of Sri Lanka, for External 
Auditors, relating to their statutory 
duties in terms of Section 39 of the 
Banking Act No. 30 of 1988 and 
amendments thereto.
(b)	The Guideline for Listed Companies 
on Audit and Audit Committees 
issued by the Securities and 
Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The BAC monitored and reviewed the 
scope, extent and effectiveness of the 
activities of the Bank’s internal audit 
function.
This included reviewing of updates 
on audit activities and achievements 
against the Internal Audit Plan, advising 
Corporate Management to take 
precautionary measures on significant 
audit findings and assessment of 
resource requirements including 
succession planning of the Internal Audit 
Department. The BAC had necessary 
interactions with the Chief Internal Auditor 
throughout the year.
During the year, BAC reviewed the 
Internal Audit Plan and monitored the 
progress of same on regular basis. The 
Committee reviewed all major findings 
revealed through audit investigations 
and potential fraud monitoring activities 
carried out during the year.
Audit findings presented in the reports 
are prioritised based on the level of 
risks. The Committee followed up on 
internal audit recommendations with the 
Corporate Management regularly. Internal 
audit reports were made available to 
examiners of the Central Bank of Sri 
Lanka and External Auditors, when 
requested by them.
Along with the significant findings, the 
Internal Audit Department has engaged 
in sharing and providing knowledge 
through audit exit meetings to the Bank’s 
staff for better control awareness and 
identifying early warning signals. In 
keeping with BAC recommendations, the 
internal audit has also provided input to 
the Corporate Management for effective 
control and prevention of frauds. Further 
the Internal Audit Department conducted 
several awareness sessions on Fraud 
Detection & Prevention to branch 
deputy managers and branch managers 
as per the invitation of the financial 
consumer protection unit of the Bank. 
Also the Human Resource Department 
conducted awareness sessions on 
the Whistleblowing Policy of the bank 
during 2025. The Committee reviewed 
the performance appraisal of the Chief 
Internal Auditor and other Pillar Heads of 
the Internal Audit Department.
INTERNAL AUDIT CHARTER 
AND INTERNAL AUDIT 
MANUAL
The internal Audit function is governed by 
the Internal Audit Charter which defines 
Vision, Scope, Independence and the 
Authority. The Internal Audit Manual and 
the Internal Audit Charter were reviewed/ 
revised and approved by the BAC and 
the Board respectively.


--- Page 186 ---
186
SANASA Development Bank PLC | Integrated Annual Report 2025
REPORT OF THE BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE
WHISTLEBLOWING
SANASA Development Bank’s 
Whistleblowing Policy is intended 
to serve as a channel of fraud risk 
management. The policy allows any 
member who has a legitimate concern 
on an existing or potential “wrong doing”, 
by any person within the Bank, to come 
forward voluntarily, and bring such 
concerns to the notice of an independent 
/ designated authority. Concerns raised 
are investigated and the identity of 
the person raising the concern is kept 
confidential, even anonymous complaints 
are looked at. A process has been 
established to track such whistleblowing 
and take necessary actions. This 
procedure is being monitored by the 
BAC.
POLICY ON NON-AUDIT 
SERVICES PROVIDED BY 
THE EXTERNAL AUDITORS 
OF THE BANK
The Committee reviewed the Policy on 
Non-Audit Services provided by the 
External Auditors of the Bank.
REPORTING TO THE BOARD
The Minutes of the BAC meetings were 
tabled at Board meetings thereby 
providing Board members with access to 
the deliberations of the Committee.
PROFESSIONAL ADVICE
The BAC has the authority to seek 
external professional advice from time to 
time on matters within its purview.
TRAINING AND 
DEVELOPMENT OF 
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Members of the BAC attended 
presentations made by consultants 
and Key Management Personnel as a 
part of their continuous professional 
development.
BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE 
EVALUATION
The annual evaluation of the BAC was 
conducted by the Board of Directors 
during the year and concluded that its 
performance was effective. Also, a self- 
assessment review of the BAC was done 
by the BAC directors annually following 
the good governance practices of the 
industry.
For and on behalf of the Board Audit 
Committee,
Mr. Chaaminda Kumarasiri
Chairman
Board Audit Committee (BAC)
4th May 2026
Colombo, Sri Lanka


