47
Integrated Annual Report 2025 | SANASA Development Bank PLC 
I am pleased to report a year of 
transformation for SDB bank in the 
financial year 2025, marking a decisive 
turning point in the Bank’s history. 
During the 12 months under review, 
we strengthened our financial position, 
governance frameworks, digital 
capabilities, and human capital, while 
also building our environmental and 
social foundation to support sustainable 
growth over the long term.
We also  deepened our economic 
impact through the Rural Upliftment 
Programme. In 2025, SDB bank was 
privileged to contribute to Sri Lanka’s 
national economic development through 
this programme by promoting women’s 
entrepreneurship, advancing community-
based tourism, developing essential 
infrastructure, and enhancing financial 
literacy. By encouraging women’s 
entrepreneurship in cottage industries 
in the North Central, North Western, 
Central, and Sabaragamuwa provinces, 
the Bank helped break the cycle of 
poverty and empowered groups that 
were previously marginalised to become 
active contributors to national growth. 
Estate sector women, who traditionally 
had limited opportunities beyond daily 
wage labour, were supported through 
the introduction of machinery centres 
and training programmes designed to 
fit their daily routines, enabling them to 
transition into budding  entrepreneurs. In 
collaboration with the Western Province 
Tourism Board, SDB bank also promoted 
community-based tourism, honouring Sri 
Lanka’s unique culture and traditions, 
while contributing to a turning point in the 
tourism industry.
Furthermore, the Bank encouraged value-
added production using underutilised 
local resources such as jackfruit, 
pumpkin, and indigenous fruits, thereby 
strengthening national production and 
creating new economic opportunities for 
rural communities. These efforts reflect 
SDB bank’s commitment to fulfilling its 
national responsibility as Sri Lanka’s only 
private development bank, empowering 
communities, fostering entrepreneurship, 
and promoting sustainable industries 
in order to advance inclusive economic 
development.
A YEAR OF 
TRANSFORMATION
The Bank’s financial position improved 
significantly. Following three consecutive 
years of contraction in the loan portfolio 
up to 2024, we successfully reversed 
the downward spiral in 2025. Loans to 
customers increased by 16.72 %, from 
LKR 99.73 billion as at end-December 
2024, to LKR 116.40 billion by end-
December 2025. This growth was 
achieved through credit expansion 
across all products and market segments 
of leasing, pawning, retail banking 
and business banking, with total 
disbursements of over LKR 100 billion 
during the year. We remained the bank 
of choice  to Sri Lanka’s cooperative 
sector, while also expanding our footprint 
in the SME segment. Over 25% of the 
Bank’s total lending during 2025, was 
channelled into SMEs, reflecting SDB 
bank’s growing contribution to national 
economic recovery and inclusive growth 
during the year. Despite the expansion 
of the loan book, asset quality improved, 
with a reduction in the overall Impaired 
Loans (Stage 3) to total loan, Ratio (%) 
from 6.93 % in 2024 to 5.36%. This 
reflects disciplined credit underwriting, 
The Bank’s financial position has also continued 
to improve. Following three consecutive years 
of contraction in the loan portfolio up to 2024, 
we successfully reversed the downward spiral in 
2025. Loans to customers increased by 16.72%, 
from LKR 99.73 billion as at end-December 2024, 
to LKR 116.40 billion by end-December 2025.
LKR 116.40 BN
Loan Portfolio (+16.72% YoY)
A strategic shift reversing a three-year 
downward trend, indicating strong market 
recovery.

48
SANASA Development Bank PLC | Integrated Annual Report 2025
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
effective portfolio monitoring, and a 
strong emphasis on maintaining quality in 
all new lending.
As a development bank, our mandate 
extends beyond short-term profitability 
to supporting long-term economic 
and social development. However, 
the combined effects of the COVID-19 
pandemic and the subsequent economic 
crisis resulted in many customers 
experiencing cash flow problems as well 
as repayment tenor extensions due to 
steep interest rate fluctuations during 
the crisis. We responded by extending 
repayment periods, providing targeted 
relief to borrowers, and continuing 
to prioritise customer rehabilitation. 
We have also focused on resolving 
legacy portfolio challenges arising 
from tenor extensions. Approximately 
12,000 customers benefited from loan 
restructurings in 2025, with many able 
to access additional financing under 
improved terms. These measures 
helped resolve nearly one-third of the 
previously troubled portfolio, representing 
substantial progress in strengthening 
the financial position of the affected 
customers as well as our balance sheet. 
We also expended approximately  LKR 
1 billion in providing relief to affected 
customers, which eroded our profitability 
for the year. Nevertheless, despite these 
interventions, we have increased our 
profitability (PBT) year-on-year, from LKR 
684 Mn in 2024 to LKR 800 Mn, which is 
a growth of 16.94%.
We also targeted higher fee income 
through avenues such as Bancassurance 
while minimising leakages through 
automation of processes as well as close 
monitoring. Our fee income accordingly 
improved from LKR 631 Mn in 2024 
to LKR 716 Mn in 2025. We intend to 
focus on this further in the coming year 
enriching our revenue mix.
MANAGING EXTERNAL 
SHOCKS
The adverse impact of Cyclone Ditwah 
on Sri Lanka’s agriculture sector posed a 
significant national challenge. However, 
as the event occurred during the tail end 
of the year, in November 2025, its impact 
on the Bank’s overall annual performance 
was minimal. While branches in 
Kaduwela, Ekala and Giriulla sustained 
significant damage, operations were 
restored within a few days, with no loss of 
customer data, or material inconvenience 
to customers.
A few community development projects 
under our Rural Upliftment Programme, 
particularly in agriculture, in areas such 
as Ududumbara, were also affected. 
These losses are not a material threat 
to the Bank’s financial stability and the 
projects will be reviewed and revived. We 
are also considering the integration of 
enhanced climate resilience strategies, 
such as smart agriculture solutions. To 
address potential food shortages due 
to the widespread destruction of crops, 
we have also initiated short-term crop 
cultivations in unaffected provinces, with 
harvests expected to reach markets by 
early 2026. A new processing centre for 
fish and seaweed will also be opened 
in Trincomalee town in 2026, which will 
improve the nutritional status of low-
income communities. Increasing the 
harvest from the ocean can also soften 
the impact of agricultural losses. In fact, 
we are involved in some highly impactful 
development projects under our Rural 
Upliftment Programme, mainly through 
our cooperative connections, and I urge 
our stakeholders to refer to the Social 
Capital chapter for details on these 
projects.
SUSTAINABLE 
TRANSFORMATION
A key aspect of our ongoing 
transformation is our new corporate 
strategy that will guide the Bank over 
the three years from 2026 to 2029. This 
strategy was formulated in collaboration 
with Rabo Partnerships, a wholly owned 
subsidiary of Rabobank, drawing on its 
deep expertise in cooperative banking, 
agriculture finance, food security 
and financial inclusion. We have also 
developed a dedicated agri-financing 
model that is aimed at positioning SDB 
bank as a key development partner for 
the country’s agriculture sector over 
the long term. Therefore, we are now 
equipped with a clear roadmap for 
sustained transformation and growth, 
targeting greater positive social and 
environmental impacts.
Another significant development in 
2025 was bringing previously dispersed 
departments under one roof in Colombo 
as a second head office. This will 
significantly smooth back-end processing 
as we scale up our SME, pawning, 
leasing and cooperative banking 
portfolios in the new financial year.
The digital transition remains central 
to our growth agenda. Significant 
investments have already been made 
in the previous year to modernise the 
technology infrastructure, and this 
will be the transformation base for the 
Bank as we move forward. We are 
also introducing digital solutions to 
cooperative societies and SMEs, and 
are gradually connecting them to value 
chains and markets. Our value chain 
financing initiatives have continued to 
expand during the year, creating new 
avenues for SME growth, particularly in 
the agriculture, dairy and fishing sectors, 
by linking smaller enterprises to the 
supply chains of larger corporates and 
providing more secure market access.
In parallel with these developments, 
we have invested in upskilling, talent 
acquisition and leadership development 
across the Bank to align our skill sets with 
strategic priorities and evolving market 
demands.
OUTLOOK
We have concluded 2025 with SDB bank 
well-positioned to deliver consistent 
growth over the medium term. Given the 
central role of agriculture in Sri Lanka’s 
economy, exports, livelihoods and food 
security, SDB bank will continue to 
expand its role in the country’s SME and 
agriculture sectors, while also expanding 
our share in other economic areas.

49
Integrated Annual Report 2025 | SANASA Development Bank PLC 
We are also cognisant of the inherent 
climate-related risks and external 
uncertainties we face, particularly when 
expanding our presence in agriculture. 
However, I am confident that SDB bank’s 
strategy of selective sector participation, 
careful risk assessments, strengthening 
the balance sheet and enhanced 
organisational capability will enable us to 
navigate future challenges with resilience. 
Accordingly, we anticipate maintaining 
positive growth momentum in 2026.
I conclude my message by extending 
my sincere appreciation to our major 
shareholders for their continued 
confidence and support, and in particular 
to Rabo Partnerships for its contributions 
to our strategic transformation. During 
the year, FMO exited as a major 
shareholder. Nevertheless, we continue 
to maintain a close, constructive working 
relationship, with FMO remaining a 
strategic stakeholder and contributor in 
our planning process. We also expanded 
our network of partnerships, particularly 
within agriculture and rural development 
initiatives, and I gratefully acknowledge 
the support we have received from all 
of them. I am grateful for the prudent 
guidance of the Board of Directors, and 
for the dedication and commitment of 
our management team and staff, who 
have worked tirelessly to deliver the 
performance outcomes of this year. 
Above all, I thank our customers, whose 
trust and partnership remain our greatest 
strength. As we enter a new era of growth 
and opportunity, we look forward to 
continuing this journey together.
Mr. Kapila Ariyaratne
Chief Executive Officer
4th May 2026
Colombo, Sri Lanka
